Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
Available online 31 October 2023
2211-3797/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by￾nc-nd/4.0/).
An improved method for measuring epi-wafer thickness based on the 
infrared interference principle: Addressing interference quality and 
multiple interferences in double-layer structures 
Jiaxing Sun a
, Zhisong Li a,*
, Haojie Zhang a
, Jinlong Song b
, Tianbao Zhai a 
a College of Machine, Shanghai Dianji University, Shanghai 201306, PR China b FabXLab (Ningbo) Semiconductor Equipment Co.,Ltd, Shanghai 201114, PR China 
ARTICLE INFO 
Keywords: 
Bilayer film thickness measurement 
Infrared interferometry 
Variational mode decomposition 
Lomb-Scargle periodogram 
One-dimensional signal processing 
ABSTRACT 
The precise measurement of the thickness of substrate and epitaxial layers in epi-wafers is essential in the 
semiconductor chip fabrication process. This study presents a new method for measuring the thickness of epi￾wafers using Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) technology, which allows for precise, simultaneous, and fast 
measurement of both substrate and epitaxial layers. To address the low accuracy of traditional FTIR techniques, a 
novel VMD-LSP algorithm is introduced, capable of precisely extracting frequency components from the original 
spectral signal to calculate the precise thickness of the substrate and epitaxial layers. This study also introduces 
an adaptive spectral excision algorithm and a high-precision thickness extraction algorithm to handle variations 
in the infrared light absorption of different epi-wafer materials, leading to weakened interference signals, and the 
challenges that stem from the unique double-layer structure of the wafer. These algorithms efficiently reduce the 
impact of poor spectral quality and multiple interferences on measurement results, resulting in improved mea￾surement accuracy and stability. During the experimental phase, we compared our results obtained by ellips￾ometry as truth to evaluate the accuracy and stability of our proposed method. The results show an 85% 
reduction in measurement error and a 65% improvement in stability compared to traditional methods. As a 
result, our method meets the need for fast and efficient epi-wafer thickness measurement in semiconductor chip 
manufacturing, providing a feasible and effective solution to the challenge of epi-wafer thickness measurement. 
Introduction 
Chips are key components in electronic devices and play a crucial 
role in various fields. In the chip manufacturing process, over 95 % of 
integrated circuits and semiconductor devices are fabricated on epi￾wafers[1,2]. Epi-Wafers preparation includes substrate preparation and 
epitaxial processes. Epitaxy processes are used to grow high-resistance 
epitaxial layers on low-resistance substrates, overcoming the break￾down and saturation voltage drop problems of conventional silicon 
semiconductor devices[3–5]. Appropriate substrate and epitaxial 
thickness not only provide a stable foundation for the precise positioning 
and interconnection of the chip’s functional components but also ensure 
the precise positioning and arrangement of the chip’s internal elements, 
thereby achieving the expected circuit functionality[6–8]. Conse￾quently, the thickness of the substrate and epitaxial layers is an impor￾tant parameter in the epi-wafer quality inspection process[9,10]. 
Methods such as scanning electron microscopy (SEM) use thin elec￾tron beams to scan samples, producing clear images of sectional 
morphology through the interaction between electron beams and sam￾ples[11]. However, such methods lack online measurement capabilities 
and are not suitable for industrial production due to possible surface 
damage and extended measurement times[12]. In contrast, optical 
measurement methods effectively address these issues. Currently, the 
primary optical measurement methods include ellipsometry and 
Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Spectroscopic Ellips￾ometry (SE) is a polarized light based measurement technique that is 
widely used to measure surface structures and dimensional or optical 
parameters of surface layers[13]. In this method, ellipsometer parame￾ters are obtained by measuring the relative amplitude and phase 
changes of polarized light reflected from the material surface[14,15]. 
However, for the measurement of optical films such as wafer samples, 
calculations and fitting are required to obtain the optical parameters of 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: song272808216@163.com (Z. Li). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Results in Physics 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/rinp 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rinp.2023.107146 
Received 28 August 2023; Received in revised form 28 October 2023; Accepted 30 October 2023 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
2
the film[16]. Therefore, spectroscopic ellipsometry is an indirect mea￾surement method, and the accuracy of its results depends not only on the 
measurement accuracy of the ellipsometer itself, but also on the 
appropriate selection of film structures, evaluation parameters and 
dispersion models[17,18]. Furthermore, ellipsometry has limitations 
when measuring thick films, ellipsometry methods display thickness 
periodicity for films thicker than 10 μm[19]. Consequently, there are 
multiple uncertain values for films with unknown range thicknesses, 
which impedes rapid measurement[20]. Fourier Transform Infrared 
interferometry is a technique that offers significant advantages for 
measuring the thickness of optical films[21]. This method collects the 
reflected spectrum formed by the interference of reflected light beams 
from the upper and lower surfaces of a thin film, and then uses time￾domain-frequency-domain analysis methods such as Fourier transform 
to calculate the maximum frequency of its reflected spectrum, thereby 
obtaining the thickness information of the sample[22–24]. Although the 
thickness measurement accuracy of Fourier transform infrared tech￾nology cannot match that of spectroscopic ellipsometry, this method 
reduces the dependence on scattering models and simplifies the mea￾surement process, making it suitable for the optical properties of most 
films[25,26]. In addition, this method is less affected by environmental 
factors and is very suitable for situations where accurate and rapid 
measurement is required in industrial production[27]. 
In our prior research endeavors, we crafted a methodology predi￾cated upon Fourier-transform infrared technology, aimed at measuring, 
and calibrating the thickness of single-layer semiconductor thin films 
[28]. A plethora of experiments were undertaken, validating the 
method’s suitability for gauging single-layer semiconductor film thick￾ness. Nonetheless, for the more commonly employed epitaxial wafers 
within the semiconductor industry, employing this technique for 
thickness measurement unveils substantial constraints. (1) Epitaxial 
wafers in the semiconductor domain typically consist of a substrate with 
a thickness on the order of hundreds of micrometers and an epitaxial 
layer, often several ten micrometers or even thinner. These two strata 
may utilize identical semiconductor materials or distinct ones. However, 
the optical characteristics of the substrate and the epitaxial layer differ 
due to the use of different semiconductor materials or different doping 
concentrations. In Fourier transform infrared interference thickness 
measurement, this is manifested as a difference in the infrared absorp￾tion ability of the substrate and the epitaxial layer. Therefore, when the 
semiconductor material has a strong absorption ability for infrared light, 
this leads to weak reflected light and poor interference quality. More￾over, currently prevalent SLED and LED light sources in the market do 
not exhibit uniform power distribution within their spectral range. 
Therefore, within lower-power spectral bands, interference phenomena 
may not occur at all. (2) Similarly, owing to the dual-layer architecture 
inherent to epitaxial wafers, when employing the method proposed in 
our prior research, incident light often undergoes multiple reflections 
within the epitaxial wafer. This occurrence results in the presence of 
multiple thickness peaks within the frequency domain of the reflectance 
spectrum, posing a challenge for the final thickness extraction. (3) In our 
prior study, we employed Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) as a 
high-pass filter. However, for dual-layer and even multi-layer semi￾conductor thin-film structures like epitaxial wafers, EMD is no longer a 
viable choice. EMD is entirely data-driven, and the number of modes (K) 
generated during decomposition is solely dictated by the sample data, 
rendering it uncontrollable. Consequently, for single-layer thin films, we 
could assume that the signal component representing thickness was 
superimposed within the highest frequency mode, Imf1, extracted during 
decomposition. Conversely, for multi-layer thin films, simultaneous 
extraction of multiple thickness components is requisite. Continued use 
of the EMD decomposition method could lead to different thickness 
signal components being superimposed within various modes, falling 
short of the rapid industrial measurement requisites. (4) In our prior 
research, an accelerated computation technique for the Lomb-Scargle 
Periodogram (LSP), as introduced by Press and Rybicki[29], was 
employed. However, as precision requirements continue to escalate 
within practical industrial production, a corresponding augmentation in 
data sampling points becomes imperative. Existing Lomb-Scargle 
Periodogram computation methods may fall short of meeting the effi￾ciency and rapid measurement demands prevalent in industrial pro￾duction. Addressing the aforementioned challenges encountered during 
practical measurements necessitates further research and the develop￾ment of novel technologies and methodologies to facilitate the appli￾cation of infrared interference technology in measuring the thickness of 
epitaxial semiconductor wafers. 
This essay offers a swift, highly precise, and simultaneous method for 
measuring the thickness of both the epi-wafer substrate and the epitaxial 
layer, using the Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) interferometry prin￾ciples. Firstly, while dealing with the raw spectral signals, we introduce 
an adaptive spectral excision algorithm that filters out lower-quality 
spectral segments. This results in better accuracy of the subsequent 
analysis. Secondly, during the transformation from time-domain to 
frequency-domain, we propose the VLA (VMD-LSP Algorithm) method. 
This algorithm accurately extracts primary frequency components from 
the signal which represents thickness information. Thus, it enhances the 
accuracy and reliability of the measurement results. Finally, while dis￾cussing thickness extraction, we propose a new high-precision thickness 
extraction algorithm. This algorithm successfully eliminates noise 
interference signals introduced by ambient light or mechanical vibra￾tions. It enables us to extract epi-wafer substrate and epitaxial layer 
thickness with more accuracy, tackling the difficulties faced by tradi￾tional techniques in measuring multilayer film thickness. 
Method 
This chapter introduces the principles of measuring epi-wafer 
thickness using FTIR technology and the innovative algorithms pro￾posed for this purpose. The VLA algorithm, the adaptive spectral exci￾sion algorithm, and the high-precision thickness extraction algorithm 
are among the algorithms described in this chapter. They have been 
designed to enhance the accuracy and reliability of measuring the 
thickness of semiconductor epi-wafer substrates and epitaxial layers, 
offering a solution for this purpose. 
Principle of infrared interferometric thickness measurement 
Fig. 1 demonstrates the interferometric thickness measurement 
principle. Subfigure (a) presents an epi-wafer sample containing a thin 
epitaxial layer and a comparatively thick substrate, resulting in three 
reflective surfaces from these two dielectric layers. Therefore, the inci￾dent light (I0) passes through these three surfaces in sequence, under￾going reflection and resulting in interference within the interferometric 
cavity. This ultimately leads to the creation of a reflection spectrum, as 
illustrated in subfigure (b). The reflection spectrum (R) is mathemati￾cally represented as follows[27,30]: 
⎧
⎪⎨
⎪⎩
R(z, λ) = R1 + R2 + 2
√̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
R1⋅R2 ⋅cos(2
λ
πz
)
z = 2ndcosθ
(1) 
where R1 represents the background profile of the light source. R2 de￾notes the intensity of diffusely reflected interference beams within op￾tical elements like optical fibers and probes. z signifies the optical path 
difference between the two reflected beams; λ represents the wavelength 
of the light source, n signifies the refractive index of the medium be￾tween the two interfering beams, and d corresponds to the thickness of 
the medium[31]. 
FTIR technique deduces thin film thickness by analyzing the fre￾quency f of the reflected spectrum. In Equation (1), considering 1/λ as 
time t, the optical path difference z becomes analogous to the frequency f 
of a cosine signal. Consequently, through the computation of the 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
3
frequency f in the reflected spectrum, thin film thickness can be solved 
using Equation (1). 
In the case of epi-wafer samples with a bilayer structure, three peaks 
emerge upon frequency calculation of their reflective spectra, as illus￾trated in Fig. 1(c). These peaks correspond to the thickness of the 
epitaxial layer, de, the thickness of the substrate, ds, and the sum of both 
thicknesses, dsum, respectively. 
An improved method of frequency calculation (VMD-LSP Algorithm) 
According to equation (1), it is easy to see that if the wavelength λ is 
viewed as a time increment t, then the reflection spectrum signal R is a 
non-stationary signal whose oscillation frequency decreases with 
increasing λ. Therefore, traditional Fourier transform methods cannot 
meet the accuracy requirements when extracting the maximum fre￾quency of the reflection spectrum signal R. To accurately extract the 
maximum frequency of the original spectral signal, this paper proposes a 
method called VMD-LSP Algorithm (VLA). The method uses Variational 
Mode Decomposition (VMD) to filter the original spectrum and calcu￾lates the Lomb-Scargle periodogram of the high-frequency component 
after decomposition to achieve more accurate thickness calculation. By 
using the VMD algorithm, we can effectively reduce the influence of the 
infrared light source base signal, separate the cosine signal with thin film 
thickness information from the interference signal generated by diffuse 
reflection inside the optical fiber and optical probe, and improve the 
calculation efficiency of LSP algorithm. Compared with Fast Fourier 
Transform (FFT) method, VLA algorithm performs better in processing 
non-stationary signals and can better eliminate noise interference, 
making it more suitable for extracting the maximum frequency of the 
original spectral signal. 
Lomb-Scargle periodogram 
The Lomb-Scargle periodogram (LSP), based on the discrete Fourier 
transform, effectively identifies periodic components in non-uniform 
time series[32,33]. Its central idea involves using sine functions to 
non-linearly fit data sequences for estimating power spectral density. 
For the reflected spectrum R(λi) obtained from the spectrometer, where i 
= 1,2… N, the periodogram at frequency ’f’ is defined as[34,35]: 
P(f) =
{
2
1
σ2
[∑
i
(R(λi) − R )cos[2πf(λi − τ)]
2 ]
∑
i
cos2[2πf(λi − τ)]
+
[∑
i
(R(λi) − R )sin[2πf(λi − τ)]
2 ]
∑
i
sin2
[2πf(λi − τ)]
}
(2) 
where R and σ2 are the mean and variance of the measurements, 
respectively, given by: 
R = 1
N
∑
i
R(λi), σ2 = N −
1
1
∑
i
(R(λi) − R )
2 (3) 
and the time-offset τ is defined by: 
τ = 1
4πf
tan− 1
(∑
i
sin(4πf λi)
∑
i
cos(4πf λi)
)
(4) 
The major concern with the LSP algorithm lies in its computational 
complexity. If the method of approximating trigonometric functions 
using Taylor series expansion is employed, the overall computational 
complexity can easily reach O(N2
). Leroy B[36], in pursuit of enhanced 
efficiency, leveraged the Fast Fourier Transform to refine the conven￾tional LSP algorithm. Without compromising solution accuracy, this 
modification reduced the computational complexity to O(log N), 
resulting in nearly a fivefold reduction in computation time. The Fast 
LSP algorithm begins by defining four coefficients: 
SR = ∑
i
(R(λi) − R )sin(2πf λi),CR = ∑
i
(R(λi) − R )cos(2πf λi)
S2 = ∑
i
sin(4πf λi),C2 = ∑
i
cos(4πf λi) (5) 
The refined LSP formula is as follows: 
P(f) = 1
2σ2
{
[CRcos(2πf τ) + SRsin(2πf τ)]2
N + C2cos(4πf τ) + S2sin(4πf τ)
+ [SRcos(2πf τ) − CRsin(2πf τ)]2
N − C2cos(4πf δ) − S2sin(4πf τ)
}
(6) 
Variational mode decomposition 
In 2013, Dragomiretskiy et al. proposed a novel completely non￾recursive variational mode decomposition (VMD) method. This 
method transforms mode decomposition into a variational solution 
problem and uses the alternating direction multiplier method for opti￾mization[37]. In the process of optimization, an ensemble of modes with 
band-limited characteristics is obtained[38]. Specifically, the core of 
Variational Mode Decomposition (VMD) is to construct a variational 
problem that exploits the principles of classical Wiener filtering, Hilbert 
transforms, and down-mixing to decompose multi-component signals 
into multiple Intrinsic Mode Functions (Imfs). Here, the Wiener filter is 
used to denoise the signal, while the Hilbert transform acts as a spectral 
domain multiplier, producing an analytical single-sideband signal[39]. 
During the decomposition process, the sum of the bandwidths is mini￾mized by iteratively searching for limited bandwidth and the optimal 
center frequency to ensure that the component signals are equal to the 
original signal. This method determines the number of Imfs and allows 
the output of the Imfs to be controlled based on practical considerations. 
Each Imf can be represented as follows: 
uK = AK(t)cos[φK(t)] (7) 
where, AK(t) represents the instantaneous amplitude of uK, φK(t) denotes 
the instantaneous phase, and t denotes time. 
Fig. 1. Infrared interferometric thickness measurement principle. (a)Interference model; (b)Reflectance spectrum; (c) Thickness calculation; 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
4
The constrained optimization problem for constructing each Imf 
component in VMD can be formulated as[40]: 
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
min
({uK}, {ωK} )
{∑
K
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
∂t
[(δ(t) + π
j
t
)
∗ uK(t)
]
e− jwK t
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
2
2
}
s.t.
∑
K
uK(t) = f(t)
(8) 
where f(t) represents the original signal, [14]= {u1, u2, …, uk} represents 
the K finite bandwidth Imfs obtained from the decomposition, {ωK} =
{ω1, ω2, …, ωk} represents the center frequencies of the Imfs, δ(t) is the 
Dirac function, * denotes the convolution operator, and j is the imagi￾nary unit. 
Next, by utilizing the Lagrange multiplier algorithm with quadratic 
penalty terms, the problem is transformed into an unconstrained vari￾ational problem, leveraging the convergence of quadratic penalty under 
finite weights and strict enforcement of Lagrange multiplier constraints. 
Therefore, the extended Lagrange expression L is given as[41]: 
L({uK}, {ωK}, λ ) = α
∑
K
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
∂t
[(δ(t) + π
j
t
)
∗ uK(t)
]
e− jwK t
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
2
2
+
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
f(t)
− ∑
K
uK(t)
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
⃦
2
2
+
〈
λ(t), f(t) − ∑
K
uK(t)
〉
(9) 
where, λ(t) represents the Lagrange multiplier operator and α is the 
balance parameter for the data fidelity constraint, which was set to 3000 
in this study. Finally, the Alternate Direction Method of Multipliers 
(ADMM) is employed to identify the saddle point of the above function 
and solve the original minimization problem. The solution process in￾volves iterative updates of uK, ωK, and λ until the optimal solution of the 
above function is obtained. By following these steps, the VMD decom￾position is completed, resulting in K Imf components. 
The VMD method has shown a strong ability to solve mode mixing 
and misclassification problems due to non-iterative calculation and 
adaptive narrowband determination procedures. While VMD has 
demonstrated better performance than traditional decomposition 
methods, its success significantly depends on preset parameters 
including mode number K and bandwidth control parameter α. Hence, 
selecting appropriate parameters to optimize the performance of VMD 
has become a critical research issue. 
Thickness calculation formula based on VLA 
Using VMD decomposition technology in conjunction with Lomb￾Scargle periodograms has two significant advantages. (1) it can elimi￾nate interference caused by the light source. For LED and SLED light 
sources widely used in the market, their power is not uniformly 
distributed within the wavelength range. In most cases, the power at the 
center wavelength of the light source is the highest, and the power on 
both sides gradually decreases, exhibiting a Gaussian distribution. 
Therefore, as shown in Fig. 2(a), the actual collected reflection spectrum 
is modulated by the power curve of the light source, which will un￾doubtedly introduce errors into the final measurement results. After 
conducting extensive experiments, we found that after VMD decompo￾sition of the reflected spectral signal, Imf1 reflects the power distribution 
curve of the light source, as shown in Fig. 2(b). Therefore, we discard 
Imf1 and only calculate Lomb-Scargle periodograms for Imf2 to eliminate 
interference signals introduced by the light source. Secondly, it can 
improve measurement efficiency. Based on the characteristics of VMD 
algorithm, the mean of all Imf components is approximately 0 and their 
variance is approximately 1. If we calculate the Lomb-Scargle periodo￾grams for Imf2, then R in equation (6) equals 0 and σ2 equals 1. This can 
further speed up calculation speed based on fast LSP algorithm and thus 
improve detection efficiency. 
Fig. 2 demonstrates the complete process of the VLA algorithm. The 
reflectance spectrum is decomposed using VMD, and the Imf2 compo￾nent is subsequently subjected to the peak extraction method to deter￾mine the maximum frequency f of the Lomb-Scargle periodogram. By 
merging Equation (1), the thickness of the thin film can be ascertained as 
follows: 
d = fpeak
2n (11) 
where fpeak is the peak horizontal coordinate of the periodogram and n is 
the refractive index of the epi-wafer sample. Due to the bilayer thickness 
structure of the wafer, three distinct thickness peaks arise, as illustrated 
in Fig. 2(c). 
New algorithm for epi-wafer interference problem 
By using the VLA method described in Section 2.2, we can accurately 
isolate the original spectral signal components that solely represent epi￾wafer thickness information and accurately extract their maximum 
frequency, thereby obtaining a more accurate thickness value using 
Equation (11). However, due to the non-uniformity of the epi-wafer 
material itself and variations in its microstructure, different epi-wafer 
samples of different materials exhibit differences in their absorption 
capacity in the infrared band. In addition, the reflectivity of the sub￾strate and epitaxial layer varies. As a result, the raw spectral interference 
obtained for epi-wafers of certain specific materials (e.g. AL2O3) is often 
of poor quality. Furthermore, when infrared interferometry is used to 
measure epi-wafer thickness, the unique two-layer structure of the epi￾wafer often leads to secondary or multiple interferences, resulting in 
the presence of more than three peaks in the periodogram. These 
problems pose significant challenges to the final calculation and thick￾ness extraction. 
Adaptive spectral excision algorithm 
Fig. 3 illustrates a situation where the interfering signal is weak and 
the spectral quality is poor. In Fig. 3(b), In the low frequency region of 
the original spectrum, the interference quality is extremely poor, the 
Fig. 2. VLA algorithm processing (K = 2). 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
5
cosine trend is unclear and shows a distinct periodic trend, as shown by 
the red box. In contrast, high quality spectra retain the cosine trend at 
the boundary between periods, preserving the thickness information. 
However, low-quality spectra affected by secondary interference expe￾rience destructive interference between the thickness information they 
carry and the secondary interference signal at the inter-periodic 
boundary, submerging the cosine signal in this region, as shown by 
the principle model in Fig. 3(c). This phenomenon significantly in￾terferes with the original spectral signal, resulting in a smaller maximum 
frequency extracted in the VLA algorithm and consequently an under￾estimated thickness measurement result. 
To overcome this problem, we propose a novel adaptive spectral 
excision algorithm. The core idea of this algorithm is to create a movable 
window, as indicated by the purple box in Fig. 3(b). We use the spectral 
quality within this window to determine the start and end points of the 
excision. Specifically, we first create a moving window that divides the 
original spectrum into several small intervals. Within each interval, we 
calculate the mean peak value (Mp) and the mean valley value (Mv) to 
assess the spectral quality. The window size is set to 5 % of the total 
length of the original spectral signal. Within each small interval, Equa￾tion (12) is used to calculate the mean peak value (Pi) and mean valley 
value (Vi) of the original spectral signal. 
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
Mp =
∑min(|0.1×N×(changeScale+0.5)|,N− 1 )
i=max(|0.1×N×changeScale|,0 ) |Pi|
Cp
Mv =
∑min(|0.1×N×(changeScale+0.5)|,N− 1 )
i=max(|0.1×N×changeScale|,0 ) |Vi|
Cv
(12) 
Where N represents the number of sample points in the original 
spectral signal, and changeScale ∈ (1, 9) denotes the change in the in￾terval shift scale so that the entire original spectral signal can be tra￾versed. Cp and Cv represent the number of peaks and troughs, 
respectively, in each small interval of the original spectral signal. The 
max and min functions ensure that the start point of the small interval is 
greater than 0 while ensuring that the endpoint does not exceed the total 
length of the spectral signal. 
As can be seen from the high frequency region of the original spec￾trum in Fig. 3(a), when the spectral signal quality is high, the interfer￾ence phenomena are strong and the difference between the mean values 
of the peaks and valleys of the corresponding cosine signal is significant. 
Therefore, we set up a loop to continuously update the interval shift 
scale (changeScale) and calculate the maximum mean difference (Md) 
between peaks and valleys in each small interval, as well as the 
maximum mean difference (MD) between peaks and valleys over all 
intervals. The ratio between Md and MD is used as a criterion to evaluate 
the spectral quality within the small intervals, as shown in Equation 
(13). 
max( ⃒
⃒Mp − Mv
⃒
⃒, Md
)
MD
⩾0.1 (13) 
In Equation (13), if the ratio between Md and MD is greater than or 
equal to 0.1, we consider the quality of the spectrum in this interval to be 
good. Therefore, the changeScale at this point represents the optimal 
starting position for spectral truncation. The final truncation scale value 
(Scale) can thus be expressed as: 
Scale = 0.1 × max(min(changeScale, 3.5), 0 ) (14) 
Since the original spectral signal is similar to a cosine function, 
where the frequency decreases as the wavelength increases, it is neces￾sary to truncate symmetrically around the central wavelength when 
performing spectral trimming. Consequently, the adaptive spectral 
excision algorithm truncates an interval length proportional to the total 
length of the spectral signal at both the left and right ends. In Equation 
(14), the max and min functions limit the interval shift scale (change￾Scale) to the range (0, 3.5) to avoid truncation positions before the 
leftmost side of the spectral signal and to ensure that the left and right 
truncation areas do not exceed 35 % of the spectral signal. The final 
truncation result is shown in Fig. 3(d). 
High-precision thickness extraction algorithm 
To overcome the problem of secondary and multiple interferences 
caused by the peculiar two-layer structure of epi-wafers, we propose a 
high-precision thickness extraction algorithm that allows accurate 
thickness extraction even when multiple peaks are present. As shown in 
Fig. 3. Adaptive spectral excision algorithm. (a) Original spectrum; (b) Low-quality spectra; (c) interference principle (physics); (d) High-quality spectra. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
6
Fig. 4, this algorithm consists of three processes. The first process is the 
pre-processing stage. After performing the time domain to frequency 
domain conversion using the VLA algorithm, the higher peaks in the 
periodogram represent the thickness information of the epi-wafer. 
However, as shown in Fig. 4(a), there are also some weak lower peaks 
in the periodogram, which often represent noise introduced by external 
environmental factors during the measurement process. It is therefore 
necessary to eliminate the frequency components that characterize this 
noise information. Equation (15) can be used to describe this noise 
reduction process. The effect of noise reduction is shown in Fig. 4(b). 
Ti =
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
Ti, Ti⩾
1
Z
∑Z− 1
i=0 Ti
0, Ti⩽
1
Z
∑Z− 1
i=0 Ti
(15) 
Where Ti represents the vertical coordinate values of the periodogram 
corresponding to the power spectral density for each thickness value. Z 
represents the total number of coordinates in the periodogram, indi￾cating the maximum measurement range. The noise reduction process 
effectively eliminates weak peaks introduced by noise and maximizes 
the preservation of peaks representing thickness information only. 
Next, the situation needs to be discussed. In Case 1, it is assumed that 
only three peaks remain in the periodogram after noise removal, as 
illustrated in Fig. 4(d). The horizontal coordinates of these three peaks 
from left to right indicate the thicknesses of the epitaxial layer, the 
substrate, and their sum. In Case 2, it is assumed that after noise removal 
the number of peaks in the periodogram exceeds three, as seen in Fig. 4 
(b). This indicates the presence of multiple interference phenomena and 
strong interference signals, which necessitates a peak selection opera￾tion. The peak selection operation is defined by the constraint relation in 
Equation (16): 
⎧
⎨
⎩
⃒
⃒
⃒
⃒
Pi + Imax − Pj
⃒
⃒ < threshold
Pi + Pj − Imax
⃒
⃒ < threshold
⃒
⃒Pj + Imax − Pi
⃒
⃒ < threshold
, i, j ∈ (0, Z − 1) (16) 
where Z represents the maximum measurement range and is equal to the 
total number of data points in the periodogram. After removing the 
noise, the remaining peak sequences are expressed as Pi and Pj. The 
highest peak corresponds to Imax and the measurement precision 
threshold is represented by the term threshold. Several combinations of 
peaks (Possibility[i, j]) can be identified following the peak selection 
operation, which may potentially represent the final thickness. By 
applying the constraint relation in Equation (17), the final thickness can 
be determined. 
maxIdx = argmaxi
(∑2
j=0
Ti[Possibility[i, j] ]
)
(17) 
Where, Ti represents the vertical coordinate value of the power spectral 
density of the i-th thickness index, denoting the amount of energy pre￾sent. By summing up the total energy in all possible peak combinations, 
we can determine the combination with the highest energy value 
(maxIdx), which represents the final thickness result for the epi-wafer 
sample. 
Overall procedure 
Based on the proposed adaptive spectral excision algorithm, VLA 
algorithm, and high-precision thickness extraction algorithm, the 
semiconductor epi-wafer thickness detection process is shown in Fig. 5. 
Experiments and results 
We conducted three experiments and implemented a comprehensive 
experimental design to confirm the practicability of the above￾mentioned algorithms. In the subsequent trials, an infrared spectrom￾eter with a central wavelength of 1050 nm, a bandwidth of 100 nm, and a 
resolution of 0.3 nm, supplied by Shanghai OceanHood Optoelectronics 
Co., Ltd., was utilized. We used an SLED (Superluminescent Light 
Emitting Diode) infrared light source from Shenzhen Golight Company. 
It had a central wavelength of 1050 nm, a power of 20mW (3 dB), and a 
spectral width of 90 nm. In our study, we used eight sets of epi-wafers 
with sapphire (AL2O3) substrates and GaN epitaxial layers provided 
by Shanghai Fabxlab Semiconductor Co., Ltd. together. We enlisted the 
Sinoma Institute of Materials Research to measure the thickness of these 
8 sets of epi-wafer samples using a high-precision wide range 
Fig. 4. High-precision thickness extraction algorithm. (a) Original periodogram; (b) Periodogram after noise reduction; (c) Calculate the sum of the energies; (d) 
Extracted thickness results. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
7
ellipsometer. According to the measurement results, the substrate 
thicknesses of the eight epi-wafer samples were as follows: 136.14 μm, 
222.39 μm, 278.05 μm, 311.28 μm, 342.73 μm, 477.38 μm, 531.69 μm, 
and 620.50 μm. The epitaxial layer thicknesses of wafer samples as 
follows: 31.06 μm, 27.13 μm, 38.51 μm, 79.49 μm, 40.16 μm, 34.92 μm, 
54.12 μm and 58.11 μm. As such, these measurements are used as ref￾erences for the actual thickness of these epi-wafer samples. 
We conducted three experiments to verify the practicality of the 
Fig. 5. Scheme flowchart. 
Fig. 6. Results of adaptive spectral excision experiment for 8 samples (in each subplot, the horizontal coordinate is the thickness of the sample and the vertical 
coordinate is the power spectral density calculated from the periodogram; the left panel shows the results of the periodogram without the adaptive excision algorithm 
and the right panel shows the results of the periodogram with the adaptive excision algorithm). (a)~(h):sample 1 ~ sample 8. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
8
algorithm. In the experimental setup, we used a custom-built infrared 
spectrometer from Shanghai OceanHood Optoelectronics Co., Ltd. The 
spectrometer has a bandwidth of 120 nm, a center wavelength of 1020 
nm, a resolution of 0.3 nm, an integration time of 100 μs-30 min, and a 
signal-to-noise ratio of ≥2000:1. The light source used was a custom￾made SLED infrared light source from Shenzhen Golight Co., Ltd. The 
center wavelength of the light source is 1020 nm, the band range is 960 
nm-1080 nm, and the power is 20mW (3 dB). The optical probe is our 
independently developed achromatic focusing lens with a numerical 
aperture of 0.1, a focal length of 40 mm and a measurement angle of ±
5◦. The operating temperature of the entire measurement system is 
0℃–+45℃. 
Adaptive spectral excision experiment 
Silicon typically absorbs shorter wavelengths of infrared light but 
has lower absorption rates for longer wavelengths. Therefore, the actual 
collected reflection spectrum often exhibits weakened interference sig￾nals and poor interference quality in the short-wavelength region. In this 
experiment, we performed original spectral acquisition on eight epi￾wafer samples and compared the results of the Lomb-Scargle periodo￾grams with and without the adaptive removal algorithm, as shown in 
Fig. 6. Each small graph in the figure represents one epi-wafer sample, 
where the left graph shows the periodogram obtained directly from the 
original spectra, while the right graph shows the periodogram after 
applying the adaptive removal algorithm. The true values of substrate 
thickness, epitaxial layer thickness, and their sum have been plotted at 
the corresponding peaks in the right plot. 
Upon examining Fig. 6, it becomes apparent that the Lomb-Scargle 
periodogram with the adaptive spectral excision algorithm produces 
clearer and more concentrated frequency peaks for each sample, with 
less interference between adjacent peaks. In contrast, the periodogram 
without the adaptive spectral excision algorithm displays greater noise 
and mixed signals. This demonstrates that the adaptive excision algo￾rithm can effectively deal with weak interference signals and poor 
interference quality resulting in problems from certain epi-wafers that 
strongly absorb infrared light. The algorithm can selectively remove 
regions with poor interference quality and preserve those with high 
interference quality, thereby ensuring the completeness and accuracy of 
crucial information in the spectrum. 
VLA experiment 
Substrate thickness measurement 
We collected 50 reflection spectra for each sample’s substrate and 
epitaxial layer at different times of the same day. We then calculated the 
thickness using different time-domain frequency-domain methods. We 
used three time-domain frequency-domain transformation methods: 
Fourier transform, Lomb-Scargle periodogram, and the VLA technique 
proposed in this paper. It is worth emphasizing that these three methods 
are all based on FTIR technology and are all based on Equation (11) to 
calculate the sample thickness, with their difference being the use of 
different methods to obtain fpeak in Equation (11). In Fig. 7, we plotted 
the thickness measurement results of the substrate using a box plot. It is 
not difficult to see that the VLA algorithm significantly improves both 
measurement accuracy and stability. We calculated the mean error and 
variance of the results obtained by three different analysis methods and 
plotted them in the form of a histogram, as shown in Fig. 8. 
Analyzing Measurement Precision: (1) Comparing the results of FFT 
with those of the LSP method, the measurement precision using the FFT 
approach is 98.86 %, while using the LSP algorithm alone, the mea￾surement precision is 99.67 %, indicating a significant enhancement in 
measurement accuracy. Hence, it can be demonstrated that employing 
the Lomb-Scargle periodogram during the time-domain to frequency￾domain transformation of the original spectrum is a more promising 
technique. (2) Comparing the results of the LSP algorithm alone with 
those of the VLA, the measurement precision when using the LSP algo￾rithm alone is 99.67 %, whereas it reaches 99.94 % with the VLA al￾gorithm. This demonstrates that combining the VMD algorithm with the 
LSP algorithm can mitigate the impact of uneven light source power 
distribution, further improving measurement precision. Analyzing 
measurement stability, the results show that using the LSP algorithm 
Fig. 7. Box plots of experimental results of thickness measurements of the substrate (in each subplot, the left box corresponds to the results obtained through the FFT 
method, the middle box to those obtained using the Lomb-Scargle periodogram method, and the right box to the results analyzed with the VLA algorithm proposed in 
this paper). (a)~(h):sample 1 ~ sample 8. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
9
alone results in an approximately 55 % increase in measurement sta￾bility when compared to using the FFT. Similarly, the VLA algorithm 
leads to a roughly 35 % increase in measurement stability when 
compared to using the LSP algorithm alone. 
Epitaxial layer thickness measurement 
We conducted thickness measurements on the epitaxial layer using 
identical criteria to the substrate experiment. The experimental findings 
corresponded significantly, as illustrated in Figs. 9 and 10. 
Thickness extraction experiment 
In this experiment, instead of focusing only on the substrate or 
epitaxial layer of the epi-wafer samples, we perform thickness mea￾surements on the entire epi-wafer sample to obtain the substrate thick￾ness and epitaxial layer thickness simultaneously. To validate the 
accuracy of the high-precision thickness extraction algorithm, we 
compare the results of the traditional thickness extraction method with 
the results of the proposed high-precision thickness extraction 
algorithm. 
Fig. 11 shows the residual peak plots of the periodograms of the eight 
epi-wafer samples after noise removal, together with the corresponding 
coordinates of each peak point. The x-axis depicts the thickness indices 
in the given range, while the y-axis depicts the energy or power spectral 
density for each thickness index. The traditional thickness extraction 
method usually extracts peaks based on their height and left-to-right 
order. Simply put, the traditional method identifies the three highest 
peaks as follows: the peak with the smallest horizontal coordinate is 
considered the epitaxial layer thickness, followed by the substrate 
thickness, and the peak with the largest horizontal coordinate is the sum 
of the two. Table 1 displays the thickness extraction results of both the 
traditional method and the proposed method. An observation reveals, 
for the eight epi-wafer samples tested in this investigation, that the 
traditional thickness extraction method lacks the required accuracy for 
industrial production. Significant deviations are evident in the thickness 
results of samples 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6. 
Subsequently, we employed a dot plot to illustrate the measurements 
of the two thickness extraction methods alongside the reference thick￾ness of the sample, as depicted in Fig. 12. In the figure, the solid gray line 
represents the results obtained using the conventional thickness 
Fig. 8. Data analysis of substrate thickness measurement experiments. (a) mean value error; (b) variance (statistics). 
Fig. 9. Box plots of experimental results of thickness measurements of the epitaxial layer (in each subplot, the left box corresponds to the results obtained through 
the FFT method, the middle box to those obtained using the Lomb-Scargle periodogram method, and the right box to the results analyzed with the VLA algorithm 
proposed in this paper). (a)~(h):sample 1 ~ sample 8. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
10
Fig. 10. Data analysis of epitaxial layer thickness measurement experiments. (a) mean value error; (b) variance (statistics). 
Fig. 11. Remaining peaks after applying the denoising algorithm in section 2.3.2 to the Lomb-Scargle periodogram (each peak represents a thickness value and the 
horizontal and vertical coordinates of the peak point have been labelled, where the horizontal coordinate is the thickness value corresponding to that point and the 
vertical coordinate is the power spectral density corresponding to that thickness). (a)~(h): sample1 ~ sample8. 
Table 1 
Comparison of the results of different thickness extraction algorithms (the traditional method uses the thickness extraction method based on peak height and order as 
described above; the new method uses the high-precision thickness extraction algorithm proposed in this paper). 
Sample number Epitaxial thickness(μm) Substrate thickness(μm) 
Traditional method New method Reference thickness Traditional method New method Reference thickness 
1 31.06 30.91 31.06 64.11 135.89 136.14 
2 11.17 26.87 27.13 26.87 222.07 222.39 
3 38.28 38.28 38.51 277.86 277.86 278.05 
4 79.35 79.35 79.49 152.51 310.92 311.28 
5 37.80 40.01 40.16 40.01 342.59 342.73 
6 34.68 34.68 34.92 51.71 477.51 477.38 
7 53.81 53.81 54.12 531.57 531.57 531.69 
8 57.94 57.94 58.11 620.73 620.73 620.50 
Fig. 12. Thickness extraction results using different methods. (a) substrate; (b) epitaxial. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
11
extraction method, while the solid blue line represents the outcomes 
derived from the precision thickness extraction method introduced in 
this study. The red dashed line represents the reference thickness of the 
sample. It becomes evident that, whether for the substrate or the 
epitaxial layer, the results obtained using the precision thickness 
extraction algorithm presented in this study closely approximate the 
reference thickness. Furthermore, it is discernible that, in comparison to 
the substrate, the results for the epitaxial layer are more precise. This 
discrepancy arises due to the relatively greater thickness of the sub￾strate, which is positioned beneath the epitaxial layer, resulting in a 
weaker intensity of light beams reflected from the upper and lower 
surfaces of the substrate. Consequently, portions of the reflection spec￾trum that convey information about the substrate thickness are more 
susceptible to interference from multiple reflected signals, making the 
accurate extraction of peak points challenging after the time-domain to 
frequency-domain transformation. However, the employment of the 
precision thickness extraction algorithm introduced in this study effec￾tively mitigates this issue. 
Discussion 
This study proposes a potentially effective method for achieving 
high-precision measurements of substrate and epitaxial layer thickness 
in semiconductor epi-wafers. Nevertheless, there are still some unre￾solved issues that require discussion. 
During the computation of the Lomb-Scargle periodogram, a stride, 
also known as the frequency range and designated as f in Equation (6), 
must be set manually. The Lomb-Scargle periodogram operates by 
nonlinearly fitting the raw data over a specified interval provided by the 
user. Thus, the determination of f, the frequency range, establishes the 
measurement accuracy of the outcome. Practical measurement needs to 
guide the selection of f to guarantee both efficient and precise outcomes. 
It is necessary to discuss the capabilities of this device. Firstly, the 
device uses near-infrared light as its light source. Therefore, the device is 
only suitable for testing thin film materials that can be penetrated by 
near-infrared light, such as most semiconductor materials and insulating 
materials. For most metal materials, we believe that a UV light source 
with stronger penetration power is needed. Secondly, the device 
currently only applies to double-layer thin films, that is, measuring the 
thickness of both the substrate and the single-layer epitaxial layer 
simultaneously. We will continue to improve and optimize the algorithm 
to make it suitable for measuring the thickness of multi-layer thin films 
in the future. Finally, it is also necessary to discuss the range of this 
device. (1) Upper Thickness Limit: The maximum thickness that can be 
measured is determined by hardware parameters, such as the spec￾trometer and light source used. The light source used covers a wave￾length range of 960 nm to 1080 nm, with a spectral width of 120 nm. The 
resolution of the spectrometer is 0.3 nm. Therefore, under optimal 
conditions, the reflection spectrum collected comprises 400 sampling 
points. Following the Nyquist sampling theorem, a minimum of two 
sampling points is required to accurately reconstruct one cycle. Conse￾quently, with 400 sampling points, up to 200 cycles may be restored. For 
the wavelength range of 960 nm to 1080 nm, computer-simulated 
reflection spectra imply that an 800 μm thickness (n = 2) corresponds 
to a reflection spectrum with 200 cycles. Therefore, the upper thickness 
limit for measuring thin film materials with a refractive index of 2 is 800 
μm. (2) It is important to note the lower thickness limit. The FTIR 
method computes thickness based on frequency, and thus, the reflection 
spectrum should cover at least one cycle for frequency calculation to be 
possible. Simulated reflection spectra between the wavelengths of 960 
nm and 1080 nm indicate that a reflection spectrum with a single cycle 
corresponds to a thickness of approximately 3 μm. Therefore, the lower 
thickness limit for thin film materials with a refractive index of 2 is 3 μm. 
To summarize, the measurement range of this system for thin film ma￾terials with a refractive index of 2 spans from 3 μm to 800 μm. By 
following the relationship in Equation (11), it is apparent that for a 
refractive index of 1, the range extends from 6 μm to 1600 μm and 
beyond. 
The VMD decomposition technique is an advanced method for 
decomposing signals, and its decomposition performance is highly 
influenced by the parameter settings. We found through extensive 
experimentation that a larger value of the parameter α results in 
smoother low-frequency Imf1 signals, as shown in Equation (9). In our 
method, Imf1 represents the baseline signal of a light source when K is set 
to 2. If the value of the parameter α is small, the Imf1 signal exhibits 
slight cosine trends and retains some frequency information. In some 
cases, the intensity of the noise signal surpasses that of the thickness 
signal, making it difficult to determine whether the frequency compo￾nents carried by the Imf1 signal when α is reduced represent noise or 
thickness information. Thus, determining the parameter α has an impact 
on the accuracy of the final measurement results. In this study, we set 
the parameter to 3000 based on experimental experience, but the ac￾curate determination of parameter α through spectral quality or infrared 
source parameters is possible. This is also the main focus of our future 
research. 
Furthermore, the VMD decomposition technique introduces errors in 
the reconstructed Imf components’ center frequency and bandwidth 
compared to the original spectrum signal. Although these errors have no 
impact on the current measurement accuracy, we believe a previously 
suggested EMD decomposition method can prevent such a situation. The 
principles of the completely data-driven EMD decomposition technique, 
which does not require any signal reconstruction process, have been 
extensively studied. However, the EMD decomposition method was not 
chosen because it cannot control the number of decomposed modes, i.e. 
the K-value in the VMD algorithm. As a result, the EMD method may 
decompose the substrate and epitaxial layer thickness into different 
modes or place them within the same mode when decomposing the 
original spectrum. This depends solely on the intensity of the noise 
interference signal. However, it is believed that for the measurement of 
single-layer thin films, the EMD decomposition method provides better 
results. This is because only the calculation of the Lomb-Scargle perio￾dogram for the Imf1 component is required. Single-layer thin films do not 
exhibit secondary interference phenomena, and the quality of interfer￾ence between reflected and transmitted light is good, with thickness 
information necessarily present in the high-frequency component Imf1. 
However, for the double-layer epi-wafer samples used in this study, the 
VMD method is more appropriate. 
This study conducted two denoising processes, which will be 
explained for clarity. The initial denoising process involves setting the 
VMD decomposition modal number, K, to 2 during the VLA algorithm. 
Setting K to 2 corresponds to Imf1 representing the slowly changing part 
of the signal characterized by low-frequency vibrations and long-term 
trends. Imf1 was discarded, and only the Lomb-Scargle periodogram 
calculation for Imf2 was performed to eliminate a fraction of the weak 
noise signal. However, this alone is insufficient for achieving the final 
thickness extraction. Thus, a second noise removal process is included in 
the high-precision thickness extraction algorithm. This process is per￾formed through Equation (15). The second noise removal process is 
capable of removing most of the noise in the original spectra, thereby 
reducing computational time for the subsequent thickness extraction 
process and improving efficiency and accuracy. The interplay of these 
two noise removal processes resulted in more accurate and stable 
thickness extraction. 
Conclusion 
In this paper, we present a highly accurate method for measuring the 
thickness of a semiconductor epi-wafer using Fourier infrared interfer￾ometry. The proposed method uses the VLA algorithm, which carries out 
VMD decomposition and Lomb-Scargle periodogram calculation on the 
original spectrum. Through this, we can obtain frequency components 
that represent the thicknesses of both the epi-wafer substrate and 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
12
epitaxial layer, and accurately calculate their thicknesses simulta￾neously. Furthermore, we introduce an adaptive spectral excision al￾gorithm and a high-precision thickness extraction algorithm in this 
paper. The adaptive spectral excision algorithm addresses the problem 
of weak interference signals, which is caused by the different reflectiv￾ities of the epi-wafer substrate and epitaxial layer, as well as the 
different infrared absorption capabilities of the materials in the spectral 
region. Weakly interfering spectral portions are removed adaptively to 
enhance the quality of the original spectrum. The high-precision thick￾ness extraction algorithm employs thickness constraints to accurately 
extract peak thickness information while filtering out multiple inter￾ference peaks arising due to the unique bilayer structure of the epi-wafer 
sample. Experiments show that accurate thickness measurement has 
been attained for epi-wafer samples of varying thicknesses and mate￾rials. This method simplifies the measurement process, decreases pro￾duction expenses, and demonstrates high stability and reliability. Thus, 
this approach is highly suitable to fulfill the demand for rapid and 
efficient epi-wafer thickness measurement in industrial manufacturing. 
Author contribution statement 
Jiaxing Sun, Zhisong Li, Haojie Zhang: Conceived and designed the 
experiments; Performed the experiments; Analyzed and interpreted the 
data; Contributed reagents, materials, analysis tools or data; Wrote the 
paper. Tianbao Zhai, Jinlong Song: Performed the experiments; 
Analyzed and interpreted the data; Contributed reagents, materials, 
analysis tools or data; Wrote the paper. 
Funding statement 
This work was supported in part by the Natural Science Foundation 
of Shanghai under Grant 21ZR1424600, in part by the National Natural 
Science Foundation of China under Grant 51975116, and in part by the 
Natural Science Foundation of Shanghai under Grant 21ZR1402900. 
The authors would also like to thank the editors and reviewers for their 
valuable suggestions and kind work. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Jiaxing Sun: Methodology, Writing – original draft, Writing – re￾view & editing. Zhisong Li: . Haojie Zhang: Data curation. Jinlong 
Song: Resources. Tianbao Zhai: Validation, Visualization. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper. 
Data availability 
Data will be made available on request. 
References 
[1] Lee N-Y, et al. Characterization of Si Epitaxial Layer grown on highly-doped Si substrate 
by using THz reflection spectroscopy, in: 2022 47th International Conference on 
Infrared, Millimeter and Terahertz Waves (IRMMW-THz). 2022. IEEE. 
[2] Kukushkin S, Osipov A. Epitaxial silicon carbide on silicon. method of coordinated 
substitution of atoms (a review). Russ J Gen Chem 2022;92(4):584–610. 
[3] Burk Jr AA, et al. Industrial Perspective of SiC Epitaxy. Wide Bandgap 
Semiconductors for Power Electronics: Materials, Devices, Applications 2021;1: 
75–92. 
[4] Lee K, et al. Giant tunneling electroresistance in epitaxial ferroelectric ultrathin 
films directly integrated on Si. Appl Mater Today 2022;26:101308. 
[5] Chaluvadi SK, et al. Integration of epitaxial La2/3Sr1/3MnO3 thin films on silicon￾on-sapphire substrate for MEMS applications. Appl Surf Sci 2022;579:152095. 
[6] Maniscalco B, Kaminski P, Walls J. Thin film thickness measurements using 
scanning white light interferometry. Thin Solid Films 2014;550:10–6. 
[7] Lee J, Jin J. Thickness and refractive index measurements of a thin-film using an 
artificial neural network algorithm. Metrologia 2023;60(2):025001. 
[8] Cho D-H, et al. High-speed wafer film measurement with heterogeneous optical 
sensor system. Metrology, Inspection, and Process Control for Semiconductor 
Manufacturing XXXV. SPIE; 2021. 
[9] Park J, et al. Thickness measurements and uncertainty evaluation of a multilayer 
thin-film sample using auxiliary single-layer samples. Metrologia 2023;60(2): 
025007. 
[10] Meyer D. Epi wafers: preparation and properties. In: Handbook of Silicon Based 
MEMS Materials and Technologies. Elsevier; 2020. p. 111–31. 
[11] Vahlman, H., et al. Monitoring of porous silicon layers for epitaxial wafer production 
using inline reflectance spectroscopy. in AIP Conference Proceedings. 2023. AIP 
Publishing. 
[12] Lee S-M, Kim Y-W. Morphological characterization of 325 mesh-grinding-induced 
defects on silicon wafer surface. Microelectron Reliab 2022;139:114846. 
[13] Hilfiker JN, Hong N, Schoeche S. Mueller matrix spectroscopic ellipsometry. 
Advanced Optical Technologies 2022;11(3–4):59–91. 
[14] Kim D, et al. High speed thin film thickness mapping by using dynamic 
spectroscopic imaging ellipsometry. Optical Technology and Measurement for 
Industrial Applications Conference 2022. SPIE; 2022. 
[15] Chen C, et al. Imaging Mueller matrix ellipsometry with sub-micron resolution 
based on back focal plane scanning. Opt Express 2021;29(20):32712–27. 
[16] Loo R, et al. Analysis of Selectively Grown Epitaxial Si1− x Ge x by Spectroscopic 
Ellipsometry and Comparison with Other Established Techniques. J Electrochem 
Soc 2000;147(2):751. 
[17] Levi D, et al. Real-time spectroscopic ellipsometry studies of the growth of 
amorphous and epitaxial silicon for photovoltaic applications. J Vac Sci Technol A 
2006;24(4):1676–83. 
[18] Pickering C. Spectroscopic ellipsometry for monitoring and control of surfaces, thin 
layers and interfaces. Surface and Interface Analysis: an International Journal 
Devoted to the Development and Application of Techniques for the Analysis of 
Surfaces. Interfaces and Thin Films 2001;31(10):927–37. 
[19] Tu X, et al. Design, fabrication and testing of achromatic elliptical polarizer. Opt 
Express 2017;25(9):10355–67. 
[20] Grunewald T, et al. Measurement of layer thicknesses with an improved 
optimization method for depolarizing Mueller matrices. Meas Sci Technol 2020;31 
(11):115010. 
[21] Zhou Z-H, Reif R. Epi-film thickness measurements using emission Fourier 
transform infrared spectroscopy. II. Real-time in situ process monitoring and 
control. IEEE Trans Semicond Manuf 1995;8(3):340–5. 
[22] Kildemo M, Dalsrud V, Fostad O. Measurement of physical thicknesses in 
micromachined structures consisting of glass and c-Si, by Fourier transform 
infrared. Opt Eng 1999;38(9):1542–52. 
[23] Jeong MG, et al. Subsurface Imaging of Microfabricated Silicon Membrane-Cavity 
Structures Using Near-Infrared Interferometry. Adv Eng Mater 2022;24(10): 
2200531. 
[24] Shcherbin K, et al. Near-infrared sensitive two-wave mixing adaptive 
interferometer based on a liquid crystal light valve with a semiconductor substrate. 
Appl Opt 2022;61(22):6498–503. 
[25] Park J, et al. A review of thickness measurements of thick transparent layers using 
optical interferometry. Int J Precis Eng Manuf 2019;20:463–77. 
[26] Teh WH, et al. Backside infrared interferometric patterned wafer thickness sensing 
for through-silicon-via (TSV) etch metrology. IEEE Trans Semicond Manuf 2010;23 
(3):419–22. 
[27] Boulet C, Hathaway M, Jackson DA. Fiber-optic-based absolute displacement 
sensors at 1500 nm by means of a variant of channeled spectrum signal recovery. 
Opt Lett 2004;29(14):1602–4. 
[28] Sun J, et al. A method for measuring and calibrating the thickness of thin films 
based on infrared interference technology. Results Phys 2023;51:106727. 
[29] Press, W.H. and G.B. Rybicki, Fast algorithm for spectral analysis of unevenly sampled 
data. Astrophysical Journal, Part 1 (ISSN 0004-637X), vol. 338, March 1, 1989, p. 
277-280., 1989. 338: p. 277-280. 
[30] Liu T, Fernando G. A frequency division multiplexed low-finesse fiber optic Fabry￾Perot sensor system for strain and displacement measurements. Rev Sci Instrum 
2000;71(3):1275–8. 
[31] Jiang Y. Fourier transform white-light interferometry for the measurement of fiber￾optic extrinsic Fabry-Perot interferometric sensors. IEEE Photon Technol Lett 2007; 
20(2):75–7. 
[32] VanderPlas JT. Understanding the lomb–scargle periodogram. Astrophys J Suppl 
Ser 2018;236(1):16. 
[33] Lu Y, et al. Meta-analysis of Photometric and Asteroseismic Measurements of 
Stellar Rotation Periods: The Lomb-Scargle Periodogram, Autocorrelation 
Function, and Wavelet and Rotational Splitting Analysis for 92 Kepler 
Asteroseismic Targets. Astrophys J 2022;941(2):175. 
[34] Dickman, A., 14.2 Modified Lomb–Scargle Algorithm. Verified Signal Processing 
Algorithms in MATLAB and C: Advised by Israel Greiss, 2022: p. 161. 
[35] Carpintero, D. Analysis Techniques: the Lomb-Scargle Periodogram. in Workshop Series 
of the Asociacion Argentina de Astronomia. 2021. 
[36] Leroy B. Fast calculation of the Lomb-Scargle periodogram using nonequispaced 
fast Fourier transforms. A & A 2012;545:A50. 
[37] Dragomiretskiy K, Zosso D. Variational mode decomposition. IEEE Trans Signal 
Process 2013;62(3):531–44. 
[38] Ur Rehman N, Aftab H. Multivariate variational mode decomposition. IEEE Trans 
Signal Process 2019;67(23):6039–52. 
J. Sun et al. 
Results in Physics 54 (2023) 107146
13
[39] Lian J, et al. Adaptive variational mode decomposition method for signal 
processing based on mode characteristic. Mech Syst Sig Process 2018;107:53–77. 
[40] Wang Y, Markert R. Filter bank property of variational mode decomposition and its 
applications. Signal Process 2016;120:509–21. 
[41] Nazari M, Sakhaei SM. Successive variational mode decomposition. Signal Process 
2020;174:107610. 
J. Sun et al. 
